Yeah.
In this video I will show you various member functions of a string class.
I have a few more functions listed here, so I'll explain you one by one.
And also I will give the demonstration simultaneously.
See a function append.
This will add a new content to a string.
Right.
Suppose you already have a string.
I'm using the same word.
That is.
Hello.
Right.
Then after this, if you say X dot append.
And if I write war, then it becomes Hello world.
So this will be added at the end.
So amendments it will be added at the end.
So as already told you that it will be stored in an area.
Right.
Help is already there.
Then it was null character.
Now this will be removed.
And here it will store world.
And then add Noel Gallagher.
Now, whether it will increase the capacity or not is a different thing.
See, already we have seen that though we have a certain size as five, the capacity was more than this.
So in our example, it was showing some size 22.
Right.
So it means more spaces are there.
So now this word will be stored in that vacant spaces that are free spaces.
After this.
Hello.
And if it require, it may increase the size.
So actually it will not increase the same size.
It will create a bigger size array and it will store it there.
So what happens?
We can see how that function, this open function will handle it, how it is defined inside the compiler.
We can see that.
So just we can run it and observe how it is working.
So right now this is as but after appending in the same as this is also stored well or else a new array
is created where everything is done here.
Both things are possible.
All right, so let us test this function.
I will write down hello.
And then.
Well, then also I will try to take a bigger string and see what happens.
So already I have written a program here which is having a string containing hello.
Then here I will say str dot append.
Then I will write word.
Then afterwards, I'm displaying a string.
Let us see what happens.
Yeah.
It has became Hello World.
And if you want a space after this hello, then you can give a space here.
Space world.
Then it will become Hello Space, then world.
Now one more thing I will do.
Let us check the capacity.
See out star capacity.
Right.
And here and before adding this content, then also after adding this content, let us see the capacity.
What happens?
See the capacity was 22 and after opening also the capacity is 22.
Only then helloworld is the new string.
Moral change the string.
I will write it as.
How are you all?
Hope all are fine.
I guess this is longer than size 22, right?
This is the size 22, maybe longer than that.
Or else I'll type a few more things just randomly.
Now let us see what happens.
See capacity before this attending was 22.
Then when I have appended something, the capacity has increased, so it has automatically increased
the size of an array.
Right now here, after the capacity, I will also display length.
Let us see what is the length and what is the capacity?
Length will be definitely less than the capacity.
So here by taking length, I know how many characters are there in a string.
So first I am displaying capacity.
Next time displaying length, let us run it.
Yes.
See, capacity is 79 and land is 74.
Right?
So total 74 characters I have typed here.
Right.
Including the helo and the capacity it has.
The capacity it has taken us 79.
So this is about append function.
Let us continue with next function.
So we have finished this one.
Now let us see.
Insert this function will insert a given a string at a given index.
Suppose I have a string.
SDR and the string is.
Hello.
Right.
Then if I say a star dot insert.
Now this is index zero.
Index one, two, three and four.
Now, I want to insert something.
Let us say k k at index three onwards.
So from index three onwards.
So if I say three and some letters like k k, I'm inserting this a string at this place.
So the new string will be it becomes h e l so this is 012, then it will be k k, then this l zero will
be shifted on this side.
So I can insert a string at this place, so you can insert at any location.
So you have to mention the index at which you want to insert.
There is one more version of insert function.
I'll show that insert right now here.
Index.
I'm giving three only.
Then the word is apple.
The string is apple here.
And from this I don't want all these five letters from this word.
I just want two letters so I can mention two.
So it will take only two letters, first two letters of this string and insert them in this.
Hello.
So if I am inserting it in hello, then this will become edge.
That is index zero.
Index one, index two.
Then afterwards a p just it will take ap then remaining alphabets of hello so it will be apl0.
So you can take selected number of alphabets from this one from the beginning.
Right?
If you don't mention this, then it will insert this entire string at this place.
So let us look at the demonstration of this one.
Now I have a string.
Hello.
Here, then.
Here I will say dot insert.
At Index three and I want to insert kick in so that same string I'm writing here.
So you can see that this is X Index zero, right?
Then this is one and this is two.
And from third index is inserted.
So that's all you can insert.
Now, I will write something meaningful here.
How, you know, art is missing here.
So I want to insert R with spaces on either side.
And what should be the index?
Zero one, zero one, two then three at space three.
Right.
So index three.
So, yes, this is perfect.
So let us run it.
Yes.
It has became how are you know, let us try to take a new word.
I will change it to area.
What is area?
And I don't want all three letters.
All four letters.
Just say one, three letters from this one.
So let us see what happens.
So it has taken three litres that is space and A and R.
So actually I should mention four letters total here.
There are five letters here.
So I should mention it as four.
Yes.
So it will take only a R.
So this is about insert function.
So there are a few more operations.
I will show them in next video.